										Jeffrey Liu
								      MUSC 102
Sep 4, 2023

Fieldwork Essay #1 - Hiphop Livehouse: Vinida

My all-time favorite Chinese female rapper and musician is Vinida Weng. So, when I learned that Vinida would be performing in my hometown Hangzhou, China, on August 7, 2023, I immediately checked the details of the music event. The show was scheduled to take place at a livehouse, a music venue that only allowed a small number of audience members. Vinida would be singing all of her most well-known songs during the two-hour set, as well as a few unreleased ones. After learning about such a great opportunity, I immediately secured a ticket because I was such a big fan of her music.

I learned about Vinida from Rap of China Season 2, when she made it to the top 20 contestants. Her musical preferences, which included fusing R&B and trap music with the Hokkien local dialect from Fuzhou, Fujian, soon drew my interest in comparison to those of the other competitors. Also, compared to other female contestants that sang about soft and slow lyrical raps in the show, Vinida music, for example her representative song Run this, was way more powerful and strong. The contrast also caught my interest. Additionally, Vinida and I have had some surprising coincidences before the livehouse. I went to see Benzo Li, a different Chinese rapper, in my first Livehouse ever, where Vinida was invited as the special guest. Vinida was also a special guest at another livehouse I attended in February in Los Angeles. The special coincidence further pushed me to revisit all her tracks and made me believe that I should see her livehouse or concert one day.

On the event day, nearly a thousand people packed into the livehouse, which is a small and intimate space. I was unable to find a stand in the front rows because of the late time of my arrival and the heavy traffic, so I had to stay near the back of the livehouse. Also, the whole place is dimly lit with a few lights casting cold and chilly hues, leaving a sense of mystery. 

I took a look around the livehouse before the event started. The audience was diverse, including young urban Chinese and senior locals who claimed to be from Fujian.

Right at 8pm, Vinida showed up on the stage in light blue outfits, easily letting people resonate with the idea of water. Additionally, one of the major themes of her most recent album was the idea of flowing like water. Vinida also brought along a dancing troupe that wore similar attire. 

Over the course of the next two hours, Vinida performed most of her popular songs, such as Hunt Your Down, Ring of Fire, Love is Blind, and Part of You. She also performed Dida, an unreleased slow-tempo R&B song. I was initially frustrated because I couldn't see Vinida clearly because I was in the rear of the livehouse. But as it turned out, being in the back gave me more time to focus on the music itself and enjoy its rhythm and flow. 

Surprisingly, she also included a VCR video documenting her career development from 2017, the year she launched her first album, to 2018, the year she competed in Rap of China Season 2, and eventually, up until the present, in the middle of her performance. Sincerely, the five-minute tape completely changed the way I felt about Vinida. To me, she began as just a gifted musician with the ability to please the audience and control the crowd. Vinida, on the other hand, spent every day studying music, experimenting with various beats, and even learning how to dance with the cast so that the performance would flow naturally with the music. I finally realized why her music has become so distinctive in the current music market after learning about all the challenges she has faced.

I was entirely absorbed in the music for the entire two hours of the performance along with the rest of the audience. People were leaping up and down like they were at a hard-core rock concert during fast-paced and energetic songs like Gotcha. The audience then transformed into a chorus and continued singing along with Vinida during slow-tempo rap tracks with melodies like Love is Blind.

Post the concert, I managed to talk with a few fans. One described Vinida’s music as “the cure for the soul”, while another complimented her ability to “perfectly blend local culture with modern rap elements”. I was especially reminded by one of the comments from a girl. Vinida and her music, the girl said, give her energy and confidence every day, especially when she is looked down upon by others because of her gender. She said, “despite all those online criticisms surrounding Vinida, she always sent out truly positive messages to her listeners via her music. And I now have the ability and confidence to fight against everything in my life because of her.”

After the musical event, I became interested in learning more about the online criticism the girl was talking about. In my eyes, Vinida is an absolutely wonderful performer who always makes me happy. Sadly, I later discovered that most of her hate comments were around the fact that she was dating Harikiri, a black artist who is also a hugely successful beat producer. But unlike other public figures who chose to remain silent in the face of unending criticism. Vinida handled those racist remarks in a manner that quickly won me over. To a comment that read "her boyfriend is Black [smirky emoji]", she responded "He is, and he is also outstanding"[1]. Additionally, at this period of extreme pressure, Vinida still kept sharing her Tik Tok videos, in which she inspires ladies to speak up for themselves and resist being swayed by discouraging remarks about their life. After conducting all of this research, I was instantly more intrigued by the performer and realized why Vinida's audience, whom I spoke with after the show, had experienced such a very positive energy by Vinida’s music.

The night with Vinida was more than just a livehouse. It was a journey to explore how cultural languages can be merged with modern rap beats, an immersion into Vinida's multifaceted music universe, and a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to learn about such a brilliant artist, music-wise and personality-wise.




Citation:
[1] “Chinese Rapper Vinida Weng Attacked for Dating Black Artist - Radii.” Https://Radii.Co, 1 Mar. 1969, radii.co/article/vinida-weng-harikiri. 


Right at 8pm, Vinida showed up on the stage in light blue outfits, easily letting people resonate with the idea of water. Additionally, one of the major themes of her most recent album was the idea of flowing like water. Vinida also brought along a dancing troupe that wore similar attire. 


Right at 8pm, Vinida showed up on the stage in light blue outfits, easily letting people resonate with the idea of water. Additionally, one of the major themes of her most recent album was the idea of flowing like water. Vinida also brought along a dancing troupe that wore similar attire. 

